---
layout: post
title: Morning Journal #69
---

Those select few who win the Nobel Prize in Literature such as Hermann Hesse, Ernest Hemingway and Mo Yan, have a distinct style. 

It is at least lyrical in its structure and usually, succinct in its description. Take for example, Hermann Hesse and his most influential work Siddartha; it is a masterclass in lyrical writing without being explicitly poetical. The rhythm is deliberate and the description of Kamala, for instance, is accurate yet not bloated. 

Each of these writers were able to show the world through their unique perspective and as Rilke says, one must take the world in and write something that is personal and through one’s eyes. Yesterday, I was looking for a good story to read. It’s not very often that a story grabs hold of me like an anaconda grabbing its prey and yesterday, an anaconda did find me in the form of Mo Yan and his incredibly imaginative Red Sorghum. There is a very good reason he is a recipient of the Nobel. 

Although, I have only read the first dozen pages or so, the book is already making an impact on my writing style among other things. It is teaching me that I should not be so apathetic about my writing and instead, make it as daring as possible. The same can be said Midnight’s Children by Salman Rushdie. It seems that the works I have finished and have been intellectually close with are magical realism; probably not in terms of philosophy but in terms of the writing style. 

The “magical realists” breathe life into things which have no life. The way, for example, Rushdie describes the infamous nose in Midnight’s Children or the way, Marquez describes blood in 100 Years of Solitude is something to be envious about. If the writing shows anything then it is that writing style should have no boundaries and much less conformists. There is “right” viewpoint to base your story on nor are the rules of grammar particularly important in a language such as English as long as the sentences make sense. 

The sentences can be a raging river of thoughts splashed onto the page for dramatic effect or they can be the somber strings of violins being strung in Beethoven’s fifth. They have to evoke an emotion in the reader that he is familiar with or needs to be familiar with to understand the story. As long as understanding is the end goal of the writer, for the reader then anything is fair. 

So, at the end of the day, the writer - namely myself - should not be afraid to experiment in order to find the voice which offers their perspective on the world as accurately as possible on paper. After all, the voice, their voice, is their identity and if it is not the writer identifying themselves then who will?
